---
title: Introducing the idea of Fealty
---

_This post introduces the initial idea of Fealty, an NFT pased e-commerce rewards system. I haven't done much validation here, but this sums up the current state of my existing thesis that NFTs as a loyalty mechanism could be interesting..._

# Fealty

> Fealty is a super simple Shopify App that allows e-commerce sellers to reward early buyers with NFTs as a way to express gratitude and build loyalty to the brand.

## Problem Statement

E-commerce sellers are constantly looking for ways to build brand loyalty. This is why:

> When customers are loyal to your business, 86% will recommend you to friends and family, 66% will write a positive review, and 46% will remain loyal despite a poor experience.

Customer loyalty fuels word-of-mouth marketing, user-generated content, and customer retention—not to mention increased sales and revenue.


## Existing Solutions

There are many ways to develop brand loyalty, one of which is creating customer loyalty programs. Loyalty programs usually work decently well (think starbucks points, etc.), but usually require financial commitments on the sellers part, including but not limited to:

- Discounts
- Custom Promotions
- Free Gifts

Intuitively this makes sense, as there must be some upfront cost to retaining a customer longer and increasing the LTV.

## Proposed Solution

Fealty is a Shopify plugin that allows store owners to build an NFT based reward program.

Key benefits to using an NFT based reward program:

1. Customers can get intrinsic social value by having “tokens” that verify they purchased said products at an early time. (i.e. validated early adopter)
2. Customers can receive potential financial upside by being able to trade these NFTs on secondary markets.
3. Store owners can create exclusive programs for NFT owners.
4. Loyalty programs can be created across multiple stores, increasing the realm of possibilities of drops. (i.e. Seek Discomfort and 100Thieves both award seperate NFTs for a drop. 3 months later, they do an exclusive joint drop, only accessible to people with tokens from the previous drop 3 months ago.)